[PLAT-2252] Document run details page enhancements (#581)
seqeralabs/docs: platform-cloud/docs/monitoring/run-details.md

---
title: "Run details"
description: "Monitoring a Nextflow pipeline executed through Seqera Platform."
date: "21 Apr 2023"
tags: [logging, monitoring, execution]
---

import Tabs from '@theme/Tabs';
import TabItem from '@theme/TabItem';

Select a workflow run from the **Runs** list to open a run details page. 

![Run details and progress overview](./_images/progress-bar.png)

The top of the page contains basic run details and a progress overview for an at-a-glance view of the run's status:
- View and copy the run ID, pipeline name and repository, pipeline work directory, compute environment, and launch date. 
- Select the star icon to favorite the run and find it more easily via a filter view in the runs list later. 
- Use the options menu to apply labels, relaunch, resume, or delete the run, or to save the run as a new pipeline. 

Select the tabs below the workflow run progress bar to view further run details:
- **Tasks**: View the status and progress of pipeline tasks and [processes](#processes), including extensive [task details](#tasks)
- **Logs**: View and download the pipeline run's execution log

> - **Metrics**: View resource [metrics](#metrics) for the run 

Reviewer: These three make sense as they're tabs listed in the screenshot.

However, the following 4 points don't have a corresponding tab and in this context it's not clear what they're referring to.

Author: Marked the PR ready for review before fixing this. Thanks!

> - 

Reviewer: Missing a list item.

- [Run information](#run-information) with real-time Nextflow execution details
- [General summary](#general-summary) and [task status](#task-status)

> - List of pipeline 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- List of pipelines
```

- [Aggregated stats](#aggregate-stats), [load](#load), and [utilization](#utilization)

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="Tasks" label="Tasks" default>

![Task status overview](./_images/task-status-tiles.png)

> The cards at the top of the **Tasks** tab provide a real-time status of all tasks in the pipeline run:

Reviewer: I propose removing the screenshot above and having a screenshot of just the icons from the Tasks tab over here.

> - **Pending**: The task has been created, but not yet submitted to an executor.
> - **Submitted**: The task has been submitted to an executor, but is not yet running.
> - **Running**: The task has been launched by an executor (the precise definition of "running" may vary for each executor).
> - **Cached**: A previous (and valid) execution of the task was found and used instead of executing the task again. See [Cache and resume](../launch/cache-resume.mdx).
> - **Succeeded**: The task completed successfully.
> - **Failed**: The task failed.
> - **Aborted**: The task was submitted, but the run was cancelled or failed before the task could begin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Pending**: The task has been created, but not yet submitted to an executor
- **Submitted**: The task has been submitted to an executor, but is not yet running
- **Running**: The task has been launched by an executor (the precise definition of "running" may vary for each executor)
- **Cached**: A previous (and valid) execution of the task was found and used instead of executing the task again. See [Cache and resume](../launch/cache-resume.mdx)
- **Succeeded**: The task completed successfully
- **Failed**: The task failed
- **Aborted**: The task was submitted, but the run was cancelled or failed before the task could begin
```

Select a process to navigate to the [Tasks](#tasks) panel and filter the table contents by the selected process.

### Tasks 

The **Tasks** panel shows all the tasks that were executed in the run.

Use the search bar to filter tasks with substrings in the table columns such as **process**, **tag**, **hash**, and **status**. For example, if you enter `succeeded` in the **Search task** field, the table displays only tasks that succeeded.

#### Task details

![Task details](./_images/task-details.png)

Select a task in the task table to open the **Task details** dialog. The dialog has three tabs:

- **About**
  - **Name**: Process name and tag
  - **Command**: Task script, defined in the pipeline process
  - **Status**: Exit code, task status, attempts
  - **Work directory**: Directory where the task was executed
  - **Environment**: Environment variables supplied to the task
  - **Execution time**: Metrics for task submission, start, and completion time
  - **Resources requested**: Metrics for the resources requested by the task
  - **Resources used**: Metrics for the resources used by the task

- **Execution log**

>   The **Execution log** tab provides a real-time log of the selected task's execution. Task execution and other logs (such as `stdout` and `stderr`) are available for download from here, if still available in your compute environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The **Execution log** tab provides a real-time log of the selected task's execution. Task execution and other logs (such as `stdout` and `stderr`) are available for download if they are still available in your compute environment.
```
Not a blocker, but can "still available in your compute environment" be clarified? Should when they are not available be described?
